Quickstart (#113)
flatironinstitute/nemos: docs/quickstart.md

This tutorial will introduce the main `nemos` functionalities. This is intended for users that are 
already familiar with the GLM framework but want to learn how to interact with the `nemos` API. 

> If you have used [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) before, we are compatible the [estimator API](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.base.BaseEstimator.html), so the quickstart should look 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have used [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) before, we are compatible with the [estimator API](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.base.BaseEstimator.html), so the quickstart should look 
```

familiar.

In the following sessions, you will learn:

> 1. How to define and fit a GLM model.
> 2. Which are the GLM parameters and hyperparameters and how to set it.
> 3. How `nemos` interacts with `pynapple` for pre-processing
> 4. How `nemos` interacts with `scikit-learn` for pipelines and cross-validation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [How to define and fit a GLM model.](#basic-model-fitting)
2. [How to access and set the GLM parameters and optimization hyperparameters.](#model-arguments)
3. [How `nemos` interacts with `pynapple` for pre-processing.](#interactions-with-pynapple)
4. [How `nemos` interacts with `scikit-learn` for pipelines and cross-validation.](#interactions-with-scikit-learn)
```
Adds links, slight rewording of point number 2 (to preserve structure)

Note that the links being correct depends on the heading renaming I do below

> Each of this section will be an independent example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of these sections can be run independently of the others.
```

> ### Basic Model Fit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Basic Model Fitting
```

> Defining and fitting a `nemos` GLM model is straightforward and can be done using the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining and fitting a `nemos` GLM model is straightforward:
```

```python
import nemos as nmo
import numpy as np

# predictors, shape (n_samples, n_neurons, n_features)
X = 0.2 * np.random.normal(size=(100, 1, 1))
# true coefficients, shape (n_neurons, n_features)
coef = np.random.normal(size=(1, 1))
# observed counts, shape (n_samples, n_neurons)

> y = np.random.poisson(np.exp(np.einsum("nf, tnf -> tn", coef, X)))

Reviewer: I don't think we want to show this in our quickstart -- it's not how most users will interact with nemos. instead, maybe show X and y being loaded from a file with `np.load`, describing their shape in the comment above.

Then, after this code block, say what this assumes about X and y: they have the same number of time points and neurons, y is the output of some spike-sorter, and X includes some experimenter-described features, like animal location or stimulus. Then say "see below for a brief example using pynapple to do some common standard manipulations" or the like.

Author: I think load requires more time to explain the variables, which is not the point of this. instead simulation to me is a nice way to not focus on the data but on how the code works. also Guillaume argues that it is good to see how one could simulate data

# model definition
model = nmo.glm.GLM()
# model fitting
model.fit(X, y)
```

Once fit, you can retrieve model parameters as follows,

```python
# model coefficients, shape (n_neurons, n_features)
print(f"Model coefficients: {model.coef_.shape}")
# out: Model coefficients: (1, 1)

# model coefficients, shape (n_neurons, )
print(f"Model intercept: {model.intercept_.shape}")
# out: Model intercept: (1,)
```

!!! note
    This works the same as in scikit-learn, see for example their [linear regression](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression.html).

### Model Arguments

> The `model` object has the following arguments, stored as attributes,

Author: yes, that's true

```python
import nemos as nmo

regularizer = nmo.regularizer.Ridge()
print(f"Allowed solver: {regularizer.allowed_solvers}")
```

!!! note
    The `allowed_solvers` shouldn't be changed, changing the default values of this attribute will 
    result in an exception being raised.

Except for `Unregularized`, all the other `Regularizer` objects will have the `regularizer_strength` hyper-parameter.
This is particularly helpful for controlling over-fitting. In general, the larger the `regularizer_strength` 
the smaller the coefficients. Usually, one should tune this hyper-parameter by means of cross-validation. Look at the
[Integration  with `scikit-learn`](#interactions-with-scikit-learn) session for a concrete example.

### Interactions with `pynapple`

!!! warning
    This section assumes some familiarity with the `pynapple` package for time-series manipulation and data 
    exploration. If you'd like to learn more about it, take a look at the [`pynapple` documentation](https://pynapple-org.github.io/pynapple/).

If you represent your task variables and/or spike counts as `pynapple` time-series, don't worry, `nemos` estimators are 

> fully compatible with it. You can pass your time series direclty to the `fit` and `score` methods, as well as to 

Author: yes, all our functions

`predict`.

In `nemos`, when a transformation preserve the time-axis, if a `pynapple` time-series is provided as input, 
the output will be a `pynapple` time-series too!

A canonical example of this behavior is the `predict` method of `GLM`. The method receives a time-series of features as 
input  and outputs a corresponding time-series of firing rates.

```python
import nemos as nmo
import numpy as np
import pynapple as nap

> # predictors and observed counts as pynapple time-series with data

Reviewer: with a link to the pynapple docs for more details

time = np.arange(100)
X = nap.TsdTensor(t=time, d=0.2 * np.random.normal(size=(100, 1, 1)))
coef = np.random.normal(size=(1, 1))
# compute the firing rate as a weighted sum of the feature
firing_rate = np.exp(np.einsum("nf, tnf -> tn", coef, X))
# generate spikes
y = nap.TsdFrame(t=time, d=np.random.poisson(firing_rate))

model = nmo.glm.GLM()
# the following works
model.fit(X, y)

# this will return a pynapple TsdFrame

> print(type(model.predict(X)))

Reviewer: we haven't told them about predict yet

```

> #### Why should you care?

Reviewer: While this is a good section, I think it's too long for the quickstart. Maybe just keep the first paragraph and a half, and, once the workshop tutorials get added, link to them to show more details

Author: I disagree with removing the next part because I think it showcases how powerful the interaction between the packages could be. Let's have @gviejo have a saying and break even

Author: expanding on my point of view: one would need context to understand why this process of combining pynapple and nemos is interesting

`pynapple` is an extremely helpful tool when working with time series data. You can easily perform operations such 

> as restricting your time-series to specific epochs (sleep/wake, context A vs context B. etc.), as well as common 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as restricting your time-series to specific epochs (sleep/wake, context A vs. context B, etc.), as well as common 
```

pre-processing steps in a robust and efficient manner. This includes bin-averaging, counting, convolving, smoothing and many
others. All these operations can be easily concatenated for a quick and easy time-series manipulation.

Combining `pynapple` and `nemos` can greatly streamline the modeling process. To show how handy this could 
be, let's simulate a common scenario for many systems neuro-scientists: we record a behavioral

> feature with a temporal resolution, but we want to model spike counts at a different resolution. On top of that,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature with a certain temporal resolution, but we want to model spike counts at a different resolution. On top of that,
```

recording_epoch = nap.IntervalSet(start=0, end=300)
wake_epoch = nap.IntervalSet(start=0, end=150)           

# deine spikes by generating random times, and adding the recording_epoch as the time_support for the spikes
spike_ts = nap.Ts(
    np.sort(np.random.uniform(0, 300, size=100)), 
    time_support=recording_epoch
)
spikes = nap.TsGroup({1: spike_ts})
```

Finally, let's process and fit our data.

```python
import nemos as nmo

# Actual processing and fitting:
# - Restrict to the wake epoch
# - Down-sample to 10ms the features
# - Bin the spike to the same resolution
# - Fit a GLM.
nmo.glm.GLM().fit(X.bin_average(0.01).restrict(wake_epoch), spikes.count(0.01).restrict(wake_epoch))
```

!!! note
    In this example we do all the processing and fitting in a single line to showcase how versatile this approach can
    be. In general, you should always avoid nesting many processing steps without each transformation: what if you
    unintentionally used the wrong bin-size? What if you selected the wrong feature? 

### Interactions with `scikit-learn`

As previously mentioned, `nemos` GLM conforms to the `scikit-learn` API for estimators. As a consequence, 

> you can retrieve the all the parameters and set any of them using the `get_param` and `set_param` methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can retrieve all the parameters and set any of them using the `get_param` and `set_param` methods.
```

Reviewer: but not sure whether we show people this first, rather than just say: 

"As a consequence, you can make use of scikit-learn's machinery, such as cross-validation and pipelines."

explaining `get_param` and `set_param` seems a bit in the weeds for a quickstart

```python
import nemos as nmo

model = nmo.glm.GLM()

# get a dictionary of attributes, including nested once.
parameter_dict = model.get_params()
print(parameter_dict)

# set a model attribute
model.set_params(regularizer=nmo.regularizer.Lasso())
print(model.get_params()["regularizer"])

# set a nested attribute
model.set_params(regularizer__regularizer_strength=10)
print(model.get_params())
```

This is used internally by `scikit-learn` to construct complex pipelines.

> #### Why should you care?

Reviewer: I think this sub-section should be the only scikit learn material presented in the quickstart

Author: I reduced the previous session to a single sentence

> Respecting the scikit-learn API will allow us to access their powerful pipeline and cross-validation machinery.
> All of this, while relying on JAX in the backend for code efficiency (GPU-acceleration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Respecting the scikit-learn API allows us to make use of their powerful pipeline and cross-validation machinery, while still gaining the benefit of jax's just-in-time compilation and GPU-acceleration!
```

> For example, if we would like to tune the critical hyper-parameter `regularization_strenght`, we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if we would like to tune the critical hyper-parameter `regularizer_strength`, we
```

could easily run a `K-Fold` cross-validation using `scikit-learn`.

```python
import nemos as nmo
import numpy as np
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV

# predictors, true coefficients, and observed counts
X = 0.2 * np.random.normal(size=(100, 1, 1))
coef = np.random.normal(size=(1, 1))
y = np.random.poisson(np.exp(np.einsum("nf, tnf -> tn", coef, X)))

# model definition
model = nmo.glm.GLM(regularizer=nmo.regularizer.Ridge())

# fit a 5-fold cross-validation scheme

> param_grid = dict(regularizer__regularizer_strength=(0.01, 0.001))

Reviewer: comment should explain whether this is comparing `.01` to `.001` or searching between the two of them.
